docs/README.md, before:

# Introduction

## Spren Vision

The Spren Finger Camera SDK (**Spren Vision**) is a useful tool for companies that don't already have their own device to collect inter-beat intervals. It's effortless to install and you can integrate it seamlessly into your mobile app in just a few steps! Check out our [Spren Vision iOS SDK](https://docs.spren.com/spren-vision/spren-vision-ios-sdk) or [Spren Vision Android SDK](https://docs.spren.com/spren-vision/spren-vision-android-sdk) pages for more information on installation, getting started, and code examples.

## Know Before You Code

Spren Vision is super easy to set up and integrate within your own mobile app. Once it's all integrated, your users will be able to take readings using their mobile device camera by placing their finger on the camera. Our public-facing code makes it easier for developers to drop our SDK in their code, interact with it in a variety ways, and customize certain parts of the reading pipeline.

There are a few requirements for this current version of SprenVision:

| **Item**            | **Requirement**                             |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| iOS Device          | iPhone 6s and iPhone SE (1st gen), or newer |
| iOS Version         | iOS 14+                                     |
| Android Version     | Android 9.0 (Pie) or newer                  |
| Android SDK Version | API 28+                                     |

Our iOS and Android SDK's automatically support native iOS and Android applications, but we also support a variety of framework and language integrations. Below you'll find a table outlining which integration components we currently have available for the iOS SDK, Android SDK, or both.

| **Framework / Language** | **iOS SDK** | **Android SDK (Alpha)** | **URL** |
| ------------------------ | ----------- | ----------------------- | ------- |
| Flutter                  | Available   | Available               | https://pub.dev/packages/spren_flutter |
| React Native             | Available   | Available               | https://www.npmjs.com/package/@spren/react-native |

If you're using a framework that isn't listed here, we can work with you and your team to figure out a solution so you can seamlessly integrate our SDK's into your mobile app!

Commit message:

SprenUI Library (#25)
* create SprenUI, revert live HR UI changes, load all images from module bundle, comment Sentry, remove unnecessary utils, switch to success haptic on reading finish

* logging DI

* dark mode support

* add callback to enable dismissing UI

* add support to return out guid, hr, and hrv score

* rename SprenInternal -> SprenUI in file info

* fix AVCapture session start and stop on main thread

* remove unused asset

* pull out home screen, add first vs. second reading navigation

* capture all results from API so adding rmssd, ansBalance, and breathingRate, pass flat results struct internally, return out to customer, supports new results screen with optional readiness and ansBalance

* updated results screen

* fix build issue

* complete initial implementation of new results and info screens with light and dark mode support

* fix info screens back chevron

* fix info screen UI bug

* switch to customer view modifier for padding

* allow optional injection of age, gender to SprenUI config

* add configurable color

* increase green section on ANS balance bar

* rename gender enum to biological sex and add other case

* reintroduce 2 colors

* remove unused property from config

* update docs for Spren UI

* adding Android Spren UI docs

* update Android docs to be more like iOS

* remove clickable text color

* revert default thread session start and stop

* add setting user biological sex and age to Android docs

* final cleanup

Co-authored-by: kevin-spren <kevin@elitehrv.com>

docs/README.md, after:

# Introduction

## Spren Vision

The Spren Finger Camera SDK (**Spren Vision**) is a useful tool for companies that don't already have their own device to collect inter-beat intervals. A turnkey integration into your app with light UI/UX customization is only a few lines of code. For more customization, the open-source `SprenUI` library provides a complete example to integrate Spren.

## Know Before You Code

### Requirements

| **Item**            | **Requirement**                             |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| iOS Device          | iPhone 6s and iPhone SE (1st gen), or newer |
| iOS Version         | iOS 14+                                     |
| Android Version     | Android 9.0 (Pie) or newer                  |
| Android SDK Version | API 28+                                     |

### Cross-Platform UI Framework Support

| **Framework / Language** | **iOS SDK** | **Android SDK (Alpha)** | **URL** |
| ------------------------ | ----------- | ----------------------- | ------- |
| Flutter                  | Available   | Available               | https://pub.dev/packages/spren_flutter |
| React Native             | Available   | Available               | https://www.npmjs.com/package/@spren/react-native |

### 3 Components

Spren Vision has 3 components on Android and iOS.

1. The `SprenCore` binary framework - real-time video processing and finger-on-camera compliance checks to automatically start and stop a finger-on-camera reading and ensure its quality.
2. The `SprenCapture` library - camera configuration and video functionality wrapped around `SprenCore`.
3. The `SprenUI` library - a lightly-customizable, drop-in UI flow that uses the 2 prior components, `SprenCore` and `SprenCapture`, and communicates with Spren API to perform finger-on-camera biomarker extraction and insight generation. Feel free to fork!

## Getting Started

Check out our [Spren Vision iOS SDK](https://docs.spren.com/spren-vision/spren-vision-ios-sdk) or [Spren Vision Android SDK](https://docs.spren.com/spren-vision/spren-vision-android-sdk) pages for more information on installation, getting started, and code examples.
